Israel has ordered Palestinians to
evacuate from more areas around the
second largest city in the Gaza Strip
hunis it says it's intensifying its
military campaign on Southern Gaza to
Target Hamas which has been designated a
terrorist organization by multiple
countries many of gaza's residents fled
to the south of the territory after
being ordered to leave the
north families and friends gather
outside the al- Ali Baptist Hospital in
Gaza City to pray for the victims of
this latest round of Israeli air strikes
a mother Grieves for her young
daughter the bodies were pulled from the
rubble in scenes that have become all
too familiar for many in Northern
Gaza it was here that Israel
concentrated most of its Firepower until
now Israel's military is stepping up its
offenses in southern Gaza on Sunday it
issued a new evacuation order telling
people to leave areas in and around the
city of car Unis in the
South more than 1.8 million displaced
gazin are being squeezed into an
increasingly smaller
space the daily bombings and the lack of
access to basic immunities are taking a
toll scenes like these reflect the
devastating impact the war is having on
this generation of Palestinian children
leaving those who do survive deeply
traumatized since this morning we
received large numbers of martys the
majority of them were children more than
15 children between 2 and 9 years
old these innocent children are being
bombed and they are in front of you and
you can see them
the war is about to enter its third
month and there's little hope the
fighting will end anytime
soon and for more on this Let's cross to
DW correspondent Rebecca ritters who's
joining us from Jerusalem Rebecca I want
to get to the plight of the Palestinians
uh gazin that we just saw very moving
images of but first off how we got here
the talks broke down between hamus and
Israel that introduced aen hostilities
um with the release of scor of prisoners
they've broken down do we know why and
if they could start again
somehow well it's really difficult to
say whether or not these talks will
start again there's obviously a lot of
Hope and and and effort being made uh on
all sides and and from International
actors as well to try to get those talks
up and running again whether or not they
will of course remains to be seen Nick
we know that the shaky talks after the
ceasefire even broke a couple of days
ago were continuing and they found
finally stalled yesterday uh with the
prime minister's office here Benjamin
netanyahu's office withdrawing his mosad
negotiators the Israeli intelligence
service negotiators and withdrawing them
from Doha where they were meeting with
qari uh and Egyptian officials to try to
come to some arrangement to resume even
a temporary ceasefire to allow for the
release of more hostages and more Aid
going in they completely broke down
we've got Israel blaming Hamas for not
delivering on their promise of of
issuing lists with more women and
children but the fact of the matter is
We There are analysts saying even that
Hamas may not know where all of the
prisoners are we know that Hamas were
not the only group to take prisoners we
know that some civilians were also
holding hostages I should say and we
also know that some other militant
groups also took Israelis into their
gazen territory so part of the ceasefire
was to allow for Hamas to be able to
locate some of those hostages whether or
not not they were able to do so isn't
known and the fact that they couldn't
produce those lists perhaps suggests
that they may not have been able to
locate all uh those remaining women and
children we just don't know we know that
the US are pretty firm they're trying to
get the talks to continue and we know
that Qatari officials and Egyptian
officials also trying to push for those
talks to uh to start again but whether
or not they will uh as I said you know
is is anyone's guess we know that the
talks even before this ceasefire deal
was agreed were very up and down uh
looking very shaky at times until an
agreement was finally reached so there
is a lot of Hope and a lot of chance
that they could resume but at this stage
uh they are in fact at the moment
completely dead in the water and Rebecca
just briefly if I may get back to this
situation for the people who have fled
to Southern Gaza uh for their own safety
how safe are they now with the
resumption of Israel
attacks well we've of course been
talking about the dire situ sitation in
Gaza for many weeks we've been seeing uh
the the almost constant bombardment of
course apart from the the temporary ceas
fire these people going from the north
to the South and now it looks and and
Israel is saying that it's readying
itself for a ground operation in the
South dropping leaflets in the city of
hunas in the South urging people to move
yet further south near the rougher
Crossing uh but of course people not
really knowing where they can go
everybody's saying that there isn't
anywhere safe for these people people
we're also seeing that Israel is setting
up a plan to divide Gaza up into these
zones these numbered zones they're as
part of this leaflet drop uh also
including QR codes with numbers on them
so that people can know which zone to
get into we've got humanitarian
organizations saying people hardly have
access to electricity to Communications
how are they supposed to work out what
zone they're in and I even heard read
one humanitarian saying that this is
sort of like some ma board game that
these people are being have to work out
whether you know if they're in zone 35
whether that's going to be bombed today
or tomorrow and and to try and and
vacate that area so a very very
precarious dangerous and dire situation
for the civilians in the South Nick as
one can imagine DW correspondent Rebecca
ritters from Jerusalem
there and joining us now from a man in
Jordan is unicef's head of
communications and advocacy in the
Middle East Omar Omar uh thank you for
joining us C can you tell us what you
are hearing from Gaza on the latest air
strikes and how they're affecting
people the situation is horrific um Gaza
returned to be one of the most dangerous
places for children in in on Earth as of
today you know it is a Pity to see and
tragic to see that the number that there
are more children are continue to be
killed to be injured our teams are on
the ground and they are seeing the
horrific impact that is having on the
infrastructure but more so on children
um scores of children are being taken to
hospitals they are injured um there are
scores of thousands on thousands of
children are being killed or have been
killed you know the estim were like
around 400 children killed and injured
every day and with the current intensity
of the hostilities this is pretty much
as well tragically that the death toll
could be equal to what has been in the
in the before the current moves in the
in the fighting and in parallel we see
that the Arian situation continues to be
extremely dire you know with the lack of
access to food to health to nutrition um
one million uh children in Gaza are food
insecured most of them are like huddled
in very overcrowded places and they are
subjected to the elements and to all the
lack of essential basic services that
put their lives at emminent risk let me
ask you a question about that when there
was a ceasefire some humanitarian Aid
was able to get through those talks are
now stalled military oper operations
have resumed does this mean no more
relief
supplies there are some relief supplies
going in but it's not enough by any
standard you know if you look at the
situation in Gaza today two million
people more than two million people are
in need of humanitarian assistance half
of those are children so to be able to
sustain the needs you know of the huge
needs you know you would need UNS you
need we would need sustained and impeded
access in terms of supplies going into
Gaza and as well the security conditions
to allow a safe distribution of these
supplies to the people across the Gaza
Strip to the children wherever they are
these are really critical situations
this is the current the current Crossing
ra Crossing is the only Lifeline for the
children and their families in Gaza so
any interruptions or reduction in the
aid going in this will put definitely
their lives at imminent imminent risk of
death let me ask you since your UNICEF
about the children what do they need now
and what will they need in the future I
mean psychologically after all they've
gone
through what the way the children in
Gaza need right now ceasefire there is
nothing else but cease fire that can
that ensure that they are they live and
not to be killed and not to be injured
and not to be exposed to lack of food
drinking uh a brick the contaminated
water that gives them diarrhea and and
other water Bor born diseases you know
um this what the children of Gazza need
right now ceasefire and I think this is
the responsibility if every single uh
Nation every single leader at these
critical times should continue to be
killed to make sure to put all the
efforts that a ceasefire is reached
immediately sustained ceasefire at the
same time of course the needs are
massive in in in terms of everything we
are talking about about water we are
talking about food we are talking about
nutrition about health but above all as
well you have spoken about trauma all
the children today in Gaza they are
traumatized of what they have been
exposed to for of the Relentless bming
and and the the the footage and the
horrific scenes that they were exposed
to from having their children sorry have
seeing their their parents killed or
their siblings or you know being
themselves exposed you know to the to
the to the to the bombings and taking to
hospitals you know the scenes that we
are seeing are are horrific and and
nothing could stop that but an immediate
cease fire to to spare the children of
Gaz that the the the atrocities that are
being committed understood thank you
Amar Amar with UNICEF in amand
Jordan thank
you staying in the region international
criminal court Chief prosecutor kareim
Khan met with Palestinian Authority
president Mahmud Abbas in the West Bank
on Saturday while in ramala KH also met
with activists and Palestinians released
from Israeli prisons earlier he visited
Israel and met with some of the released
hostages as well as with families of
those still held by Hamas in the Gaza
Strip Ken said previously the ICC was
investigating suspected war crimes
committed by both sides in the recent
escalation and for more on this we're
joined Now by Yuval sassan he's an
attorney who works with the families of
the hostages and who accompanied Karim
Khan on his trip to Israel and the
Palestinian territories uh Mr San thanks
for for joining us can you tell me what
did the prosecutor of the IC achieve uh
from what you're hearing in meeting with
President Mahmud Abbas who after all
doesn't rep represent
Hamas thank you for having me I I don't
know exactly what happened in his
meeting with mmud abas because that
meeting took place one day after his
visit here with us in Israel I can tell
you one thing that the
we saw during his trip here in Israel
together with us where we took him
through the communities the run the
devastated communities in the South we
visited the B kibot then afterwards the
Fara kibot as well as the Nova site and
later on he got a chance to meet with
the families of hostages told them their
stories some of them are hostages that
were already released so many of them
have not been released yet and many of
the people are
themselves victims of the October 7th
atrocities we also had a chance of
visiting together with him at the
Schneider Children Hospital meeting
there with the manager of the hospital
so I don't know what Mr bu told him but
I know that Mr Khan got the chance here
in Israel to meet with the people to
hear firsthand the stories to see the
sites because he visited the community
to hear the noises to smell the smells
because unfortunately even two months
afterwards death is still the
controlling scent when you visit these
communities sure well
burning forgive me help me understand
the legal uh Gears of all this he's a
war crimes prosecutor he's hearing
stories he's Gathering evidence uh I
would suppose to to building a case how
would the families like to see this
place out in terms of international law
do you
think so so just clarifying he was not
here for collecting evidence he was here
in order to get the first impression and
at at the request of the families but
obviously he didn't come here to share
his sympathy he came here as a
prosecutor in order to decide whether to
open such an investigation and go to the
evidence collection stage and I think
that what he saw here should convince
him to open such an investigation now
there's no question legally about his
jurisdiction to try theas you mentioned
before abas it's the same president of
the Palestinian State as they call it as
they Proclaim it and as the
international PR court has accepted it
Mahmud abas has joined the international
criminal court as such he has given it
jurisdiction over all the citizens of
the so-call bahim Palestinian State and
as such the citizens of Gaza Strip which
include all Hamas perpetrators whether
they live in Gaza or leave elsewhere are
under the jurisdiction of the
international PR of court and just
briefly if I may do you think that an
indictment by the ICC would change the
thought process of the members of Hamas
who are holding hostages I mean how does
this work in terms of the politics of of
laws is anything going to change because
what the iccc does or doesn't
do uh uh I'll I'll answer because this
is the question that obviously we're all
asking ourselves I think that first of
all we need to send a message because
the international pent court is is
legacies following World War II and the
near andb trials and its legacies that
we act today and not in retrospective so
any indictment filed by the
international PR court has a meaning has
mean in terms of Justice also towards
the families of the October 7th atrocity
second issue is obviously the people
that are five floors before below Gaza
the terrorists that are hiding there now
because the IDF is acting and act not
only they're hiding from the ID they're
hiding behind their own population be
behind their own people they they're
less concerned with that but there are
so many laders aers and aors that sit in
hotels in as I'm as I'm told five star
hotels in a ious countries they should
be concerned they have a lot of assets
they're billionaires billionaires on the
suffering of own people and billionaires
on the
suffering I'm afraid that's all we have
time for this time but thank you jual
San who works with the families of the
hostages in Israel thank
you